1. Boot into the NixOS installer. Run `sudo -i` and `passwd root` to change the
   root password to something you choose.

2. Generate an SSH key that will be used as the SSH host key of the new system.
   This key is also used for decrypting sops secrets.

> **Unlocking secrets on new host using sops and age**
>
> 1. Get the SSH host key of the new host. If the system is already built, the
>    key is auto-generated by the system and located at `/etc/ssh`. If doing a
>    nixos-anywhere remote install, generate one manually and copy it into place
>    before the first rebuild:
>    `ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -N "" -f ./extra-files/etc/ssh/ssh_host_ed25519_key`
> 2. Generate age key from the SSH **public** key:
>    `nix run nixpkgs#ssh-to-age -- -i ./extra-files/etc/ssh/ssh_host_ed25519_key.pub`
> 3. Add public age key to `.sops.yaml` under `keys:` and `creation_rules:`.
> 4. Re-encrypt the secrets file to take the new age key using
>    `sops updatekeys secrets/secrets.yaml`.
> 5. Rebuild the system on the new host. If using nixos-anywhere, add the flag:
>    `--extra-files ./extra-files` and run from the root of this repo so that
>    the new system uses this host key and can decrypt the secrets.

```
```

3. Inside the nixos-anywhere CLI arguments, add `--extra-files ./extra-files`
   and
   `--generate-hardware-config nixos-generate-config ./modules/hosts/<hostname>/_nixos/hardware.nix`
   to the command.

4. If you do not have enough room in the Nix store on your local device (where
   you are running the command), you can add the `--build-on-remote` flag to
   instead build the system on the target host.

5. Finally, install the system with the specified config using nixos-anywhere.
   Enter the root password set previously.

```bash
nix run github:nix-community/nixos-anywhere -- --flake '.#<hostname>' --extra-files ./extra-files --target-host root@<machine-ip> --generate-hardware-config nixos-generate-config ./modules/hosts/<hostname>/_nixos/hardware.nix
```
